Scan exec blog post (#175)
apache/fluo-website: _posts/blog/2019-09-30-scan-executors.md

---
title: "How Fluo Leveraged Scan Executors"
date: 2019-09-30 11:50:00 +0000
author: Keith Turner
---

Accumulo 2.0 introduced [Scan Executors][1] giving control over processing of

> scans in Accumulo tablet servers. Fluo has a good use case for scan executors,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scans in Accumulo tablet servers. Fluo has a good use case for scan executors:
```

notification scans.  Fluo worker processes continually scan for notifications
that indicate there is work to do. All workers continually scanning for
notifications can place a lot of load on Accumulo tablet servers which could
negatively impact transactions.  The new scan executor feature provides a way
to limit this load.

Fluo utilizes this feature by [setting scan hints][2] for notification scans
indicating `scan_type=fluo-ntfy`.  These hints are passed to Accumulo tablet

> servers and are ignored by default. For these scan types Accumulo could be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
servers and are ignored by default. For these scan types, Accumulo could be
```

> configured to either send them to special thread pool and/or prioritize them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configured to either send them to a special thread pool and/or prioritize them
```

differently within a thread pool.  Below is an example of Accumulo shell

> commands that setup a special executor for notification scans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
commands that set up a special executor for notification scans.
```

```
config -s tserver.scan.executors.fnotify.threads=1
config -t fluo_table -s table.scan.dispatcher=org.apache.accumulo.core.spi.scan.SimpleScanDispatcher
config -t fluo_table -s table.scan.dispatcher.opts.executor.fluo-ntfy=fnotify
```

> The system setting `tserver.scan.executors.fnotify.threads=1` creates a single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system setting `tserver.scan.executors.fnotify.threads=1` creates a single-threaded
```

> threaded scan executor in each tablet server named `fnotify`. The two per table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scan executor in each tablet server named `fnotify`. The two per-table
```

> settings configure a scan dispatcher (the SimpleScanDispatcher is built into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
settings configure a scan dispatcher (the `SimpleScanDispatcher` is built into
```

> Accumulo) on the fluo table.  The scan dispatcher is configured such that when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accumulo) on the table `fluo_table`.  The scan dispatcher is configured such that when
```

> a scan hint of `scan_type=fluo-ntfy` is seen it runs on the executor `fnotify`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a scan hint of `scan_type=fluo-ntfy` is seen, it runs on the executor `fnotify`.
```

All other scans will run on the default executor. This has the effect running
all notification scans on a single dedicated thread in each tablet server.

The above setting were tested in a scenario where 20 Fluo worker were run
against a single tablet server with 20 tablets.  The Fluo stress test was run
with a low ingest rate, resulting in continual notification scanning by the 20

> workers.  While the test was running, jstack and top were used to inspect the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
workers.  While the test was running, `jstack` and `top` were used to inspect the
```

tablet server. This inspection revealed that notification scans were all

> running in single thread which was using 100% of a single core.  This left all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
running in a single thread which was using 100% of a single core.  This left all
```

of the other cores free to process transactions.  Further testing to see how

> this impacts throughput is needed. Observing the worker debug logs, all of them

Reviewer 2: "All of them" -> "all them."

Reviewer: "all of them" is correct.

> seemed to complete notification scans quickly finding new work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seemed to complete notification scans, quickly finding new work.
```

> Fluo took a descriptive approach to using scan hints, where it described what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fluo took a descriptive approach to using scan hints, where it described to Accumulo
```

> type of scan was running to Accumulo.  However, Fluo does not care what if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the type of scan it was running.  However, Fluo does not care what, if
```

> anything Accumulo does with that information.  This allows administrators to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
anything, Accumulo does with that information.  This allows administrators to
```

configure Accumulo in many different ways to handle notification scans, without
any changes to Fluo.

> For my first pass at using scan executors I tried a prescriptive approach. I

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For my first pass at using scan executors, I tried a prescriptive approach. I
```

> attempted to use scan hints to explictily name an executor for notification

Reviewer 2: "explictily" -> "explicitly"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attempted to use scan hints to explicitly name an executor for notification
```

scans.  I realized this would require Fluo configuration to provide the name of
the scan executor. Forcing a user to specify Accumulo and Fluo configuration
was very cumbersome so I abandoned the prescriptive approach.  The descriptive

> approach I settled on its place is less cumbersome (it only requires Accumulo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
approach I settled on in its place is less cumbersome (it only requires Accumulo
```

config) and more flexible (it supports executors and/or prioritization instead
of only executors).

> At the time of this writing no released version of Fluo supports Accumulo 2.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the time of this writing, no released version of Fluo supports Accumulo 2.0.
```

> Once Fluo 1.3.0 is released with Accumulo 2.0, Hadoop 3.0, and Java 11 support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once Fluo 1.3.0 is released with Accumulo 2.0, Hadoop 3.0, and Java 11 support,
```
